# Parkinson-Detection
Parkinson's disease is a progressive nervous system disorder that affects movement leading to shaking, stiffness, and difficulty with walking, balance and coordination. It ranks as the second most common neurodegenerative disease, following Alzheimer's disease. In this study, we will analyze the patients’ data who are diagnosed with the disease. Using speech data from subjects is expected to help the development of a noninvasive diagnostic. People with Parkinsonism (PWP) suffer from speech impairments like dysphonia (defective use of the voice), hypophonia (reduced volume), monotone (reduced pitch range), and dysarthria (difficulty with articulation of sounds or syllables). Therefore, our analysis in this project will be based on voice parameters of the affected. 
Abstract: Parkinson's disease is a global public health concern. Nerve cells, the building blocks of the nervous system in the brain stop producing when they are damaged. Thus, less dopamine is produced that inhibits motor skills and speech. Voice changes in the first stage before brain cells are affected, hence helps identify Parkinson's disease in the early stages and therefore prevent brain cell damage that can lead to reduced fusion and movement. Introduction of different ML algorithms for classification of Parkinson's disease is presented. Comparative analysis proved that Random first is the best classification algo to detect parkinson’s disease with an accuracy of 93%, followed by SVM and logistic regression. The Parkinson’s disease data set contains 24 features and 195 instances, of which 147 patients are healthy and 48 patients are analyzed as PD patients.
Keywords: Parkinson's Disease, Machine Learning, SVM,Logistic  Regression, Random Forest, F1 score, Confusion matrix, Jitter, Shimmer
